[reference] Added macro docs (#70)
MystenLabs/move-book: reference/src/functions/macros.md

type parameters, they can be instantiated with any type (even a reference type `&` or `&mut`), and
they will satisfy any constraint. Similarly for parameters, they will not be evaluated eagerly, and
instead the argument expression will be substituted at each usage.

## Lambdas

Lambdas a new type of expression that can be used only with `macro`s. These are used to pass code
from the caller into the body of the `macro`. While the substition is done at compile time, they are
used similarly to [anonymous functions](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Anonymous_function),
[lambdas](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lambda_calculus), or
[closures](<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Closure_(computer_programming)>) in other languages.

As seen in the example above (`$f: |$T| -> $U`), lambdas types defined with the syntax

```text
|<type>,*| (-> <type>)?
```

Lambda expressions then are defined at the call site of the `macro` the syntax

```text
|(<identifier> (: <type>)?),*| <expression>
|(<identifier> (: <type>)?),*| -> <type> { <expression> }
```

Note that if the return type is annotated, the body of the lambda must be enclosed in `{}`.

Using the `map` macro defined above

> ```move

Reviewer: Will macros permit receiver syntax (now or ever)? If so, should we add an example of that here?

Author: I need to add a section yeah, especially since it changes things a bit for evaluation order

# Macro Functions

Macro functions are a way of defining functions that are expanded at compile time at each call site.
The arguments of the macro are not evaluated eagerly like a normal function, and instead are
substituted by expression. In addition, the caller can supply code to the macro via
[lambdas](#lambdas).

These expression substitution mechanics make `macro` functions similar
[to macros found in other programming languages](<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Macro_(computer_science)>);
however, they are more constrained in Move than you might expect from other languages. The parametrs
and return values of `macro` functions are still typed--though this can be partially relaxed with
the [`_` type](TODO). The upside of this restriction however, is that `macro` functions can be used
anywhere a normal function can be used, which is notably helpful with
[method syntax](../method-syntax.md).

A more extensive
[syntactic macro](<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Macro_(computer_science)#Syntactic_macros>) system
may come in the future.

## Syntax

`macro` functions have a similar syntax to normal functions. However, all type parameter names and

> all parameter names must start with a `$`.

Reviewer 2: "... with the exception of the `_` type" possibly?

Reviewer 3: Can we have macro parameter named `_` or it has to be `$_` or none of these is allowed?

```text
<visibility>? macro fun <identifier><[$type_parameters: constraint],*>([$identifier: type],*): <return_type> <function_body>
```

For example, the following `macro` function takes a vector and a lambda, and applies the lambda to

> each element of the vector to construct a new vector.

Reviewer 4: Consider moving this example to the top, so someone consulting the reference sees it first thing.

```move
macro fun map<$T, $U>($v: vector<$T>, $f: |$T| -> $U): vector<$U> {
    let mut v = $v;
    v.reverse();
    let mut i = 0;
    let mut result = vector[];
    while (!v.is_empty()) {
        result.push_back($f(v.pop_back()));
        i = i + 1;
    };
    result
}
```

> The `$` is there to indicate that these do not behave like their normal, non-macro counterparts. For

Reviewer 2: What are "these"? Might be useful to specify what exactly they are.

type parameters, they can be instantiated with any type (even a reference type `&` or `&mut`), and
they will satisfy any constraint. Similarly for parameters, they will not be evaluated eagerly, and
instead the argument expression will be substituted at each usage.

## Lambdas

> Lambdas a new type of expression that can be used only with `macro`s. These are used to pass code

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Lambdas are a new type of expression that can only be used with `macro`s. These are used to pass code
```

from the caller into the body of the `macro`. While the substition is done at compile time, they are
used similarly to [anonymous functions](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Anonymous_function),
[lambdas](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lambda_calculus), or
[closures](<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Closure_(computer_programming)>) in other languages.

> As seen in the example above (`$f: |$T| -> $U`), lambdas types defined with the syntax

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
As seen in the example above (`$f: |$T| -> $U`), lambda types are defined with the syntax
```

```text
|<type>,*| (-> <type>)?
```

A few examples

```move
|u64, u64| -> u128 // a lambda that takes two u64s and returns a u128
|&mut vector<u8>| -> &mut u8 // a lambda that takes a &mut vector<u8> and returns a &mut u8
```

If the return type is not annotated, it is unit `()` by default.

```move
// the following are euiqvalent
|&mut vector<u8>, u64|
|&mut vector<u8>, u64| -> ()
```

> Lambda expressions then are defined at the call site of the `macro` the syntax

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Lambda expressions are then defined at the call site of the `macro` with the syntax
```

```text
|(<identifier> (: <type>)?),*| <expression>
|(<identifier> (: <type>)?),*| -> <type> { <expression> }
```

Note that if the return type is annotated, the body of the lambda must be enclosed in `{}`.

Using the `map` macro defined above

```move
let v = vector[1, 2, 3];
let doubled: vector<u64> = map!(v, |x| 2 * x);
let bytes: vector<vector<u8>> = map!(v, |x| std::bcs::to_bytes(&x));
```

And with type annotations

```move
let doubled: vector<u64> = map!(v, |x: u64| 2 * x); // return type annotation optional
let bytes: vector<vector<u8>> = map!(v, |x: u64| -> vector<u8> { std::bcs::to_bytes(&x) });
```

### Capturing

Lambda expressions can also refer to variables in the scope where the lambda is defined. This is
sometimes called "capturing".

```move
let res = foo();
let incremented = map!(vector[1, 2, 3], |x| x + res);
```

Any variable can be captured, including mutable and immutable references.

See the [Examples](#iterating-over-a-vector) section for more complicated usages.

### Limitations

Currently, lambdas can only be used directly in the call of a `macro` function. They cannot be bound

> to a variable.
> 
> For example, the following is allowed
> 
> ```move
> let doubled: vector<u64> = map!(vector[1, 2, 3], |x| 2 * x);
> ```
> 
> But binding `|x| 2 * x` to a variable is not allowed
> 
> ```move
> let f = |x| 2 * x;
> //      ^^^^^^^^^ Error! Lambdas must be used directly in 'macro' calls
> let doubled: vector<u64> = map!(vector[1, 2, 3], f);
> ```

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
to a variable. For example, the following is code will produce an error:

```move
let f = |x| 2 * x;
//      ^^^^^^^^^ Error! Lambdas must be used directly in 'macro' calls
let doubled: vector<u64> = map!(vector[1, 2, 3], f);
```
```

Due to the examples above, I think this is sufficient.

```move
let incremented = {
    let x = { 5 };
    { x + 1 }
};
```

Again, the value of `x` is not substituted, but the expression `5` is. This might mean that an
argument is evaluated multiple times, or not at all, depending on the body of the `macro`.

```move
macro fun dup($f: |u64, u64| -> u64, $x: u64): u64 {
    $f($x, $x)
}
```

```move
let sum = dup!(|x, y| x + y, foo());
```

is expanded to

```move
let sum = {
    let x = { foo() };
    let y = { foo() };
    { x + y }
};
```

Note that `foo()` will be called twice. Which would not happen if `dup` were a normal function.

It is often recommended to create predictable evaluation behavior by binding arguments to local
variables.

```move
macro fun dup($f: |u64, u64| -> u64, $x: u64): u64 {
    let a = $x;
    $f(a, a)
}
```

Now that same call site will expand to

```move
let sum = {
    let a = { foo() };
    {
        let x = { a };
        let y = { a };
        { x + y }
    }
};
```

### Hygiene

In the example above, the `dup` macro had a local variable `a` that was used to bind the argument
`$x`. You might ask, what would happen if the variable was instead named `x`? Would that conflict
with the `x` in the lambda?

> The short answer is, no. `macro` functions [hygienic](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hygienic_macro),

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The short answer is, no. `macro` functions are [hygienic](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hygienic_macro),
```

`$s` will not be evaluated if `$cond` is `false`, and under a normal non-method call, an argument of
`foo()` would not be evaluated and would not abort. The following example demonstrates `$s` not
being evaluated with an argument of `foo()`.

```move
maybe_s!(foo(), false) // does not abort
```

It becomes more clear as to why it does not abort when looking at the expanded form

```move
if (false) foo()
else S()
```

However, when using method syntax, the first argument is evaluated before the macro is expanded. So
the same argument of `foo()` for `$s` will now be evaluated and will abort.

```move
foo().maybe_s!(false) // aborts
```

We can see this more clearly when looking the expanded form

```move
let tmp = foo(); // aborts
if (false) tmp
else S()
```

Conceptually, the receiver for a method call is bound to a temporary variable before the macro is
expanded, which forces the evaluation and thus the abort.

### Parameter Limitations

The parameters of a `macro` function must always be used as expressions. They cannot be used in
sutations where the argument might be re-interpreted. For example, the following is not allowed

```move
macro fun no($x: _): _ {
    $x.f
}
```

> The reason is that if the argument if `$x` was not a reference, it would be borrowed first, which

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The reason is that if the argument`$x` was not a reference, it would be borrowed first, which
```

};
```

This can often be helpful when using "loop"-like macros to break early. For example in the
`vector::any` macro

```move

> public macro fun any<$T>($v: &vector<$T>, $f: |&$T| -> bool): bool {

Reviewer 3: It may be a little confusing that the example for the "useful" case uses labelled return whereas the "original" one uses un-labelled return

Reviewer 3: This one uses un-labelled return:
```
let result = apply!(|x| { if (x == 0) return 0; x + 1 }, 100);
```

And this one (which in text is mentioned as a more "useful" example of the one above uses labelled return:
```
v.do_ref!(|e| if ($f(e)) return 'any true);
```

It's minor, and it's probably OK to leave as is, but when I was reading this, I expected the first example and the second one to differ only in complexity rather than them using a subtly different control flow.

Author: I reworded to help this

    let v = $v;
    'any: {
        v.do_ref!(|e| if ($f(e)) return 'any true);
        false
    }
}
```

The `return 'any true` exits from the "loop" early when the condition is met. Otherwise, the macro
"returns" `false`.

### Method Syntax

When applicable, `macro` functions can be called using [method syntax](../method-syntax.md). When
using method syntax, the evaluation of the arguments will change in that the first argument (the
"receiver" of the method) will be evaluated outside of the macro expansion. This example is
contrived, but will concisely demonstrate the behavior.

```move
public struct S() has copy, drop;
public fun foo(): S { abort 0 }
public macro fun maybe_s($s: S, $cond: bool): S {
    if ($cond) $s
    else S()
}
```

> Even though `foo()` will abort, it's return type can be used to start a method call.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Even though `foo()` will abort, its return type can be used to start a method call.
```

> `$s` will not be evaluated if `$cond` is `false`. Son under a normal non-method call, an argument of

Reviewer 3: Can't suggest and edit for some reason using GitHub machinery so here it is as text:
```
`$s` will not be evaluated if `$cond` is `false`, and under a normal non-method call, an argument of
```

`foo()` would not be evaluated and would not abort.

```move
maybe_s!(foo(), false) // does not abort
```

> It becomes more clear as to why it does not abort when looking at the expanded form

Reviewer 3: Why don't we move the expanded example to before line 526? Then we can say something like "Looking at the expanded form, it is clear that foo() only get executed if the condition is false, so under the following non-method call, foo() is not called and execution will not abort"

Author: I added some additional wording which I think will help
